docs/examples/examples.rst, before:

Examples
========

Here we will go through the steps involved in analyzing data using
hepfile. There are many different tutorials to give as much information
as possible! To follow along with these tutorials you can download the
corresponding notebook using the github icon in the top right corner
of the tutorial. Or, if you'd prefer, you can use the `binder link <https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/mattbellis/hepfile/HEAD?urlpath=lab/tree/docs/example_nb>`
in the README of the github!

Basic Examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following tutorials are examples of basic operation of the hepfile software.

.. toctree::
   example_nb/read_hepfiles.ipynb
   example_nb/writing_hepfiles_from_dicts.ipynb
   example_nb/write_hepfiles_from_scratch.ipynb
   example_nb/add_metadata.ipynb
   example_nb/awkward_arrays.ipynb

File Conversion Examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following tutorials show examples of converting other file types to a hepfile.

.. toctree::
   example_nb/housing.ipynb
   example_nb/converting_json_to_hepfile.ipynb
   example_nb/fits_tutorial.ipynb

Commit message:

update examples with histogram to hepfile example

docs/examples/examples.rst, after:

Examples
========

Here we will go through the steps involved in analyzing data using
hepfile. There are many different tutorials to give as much information
as possible! To follow along with these tutorials you can download the
corresponding notebook using the github icon in the top right corner
of the tutorial. Or, if you'd prefer, you can use the `binder link <https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/mattbellis/hepfile/HEAD?urlpath=lab/tree/docs/example_nb>`
in the README of the github!

Basic Examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following tutorials are examples of basic operation of the hepfile software.

.. toctree::
   example_nb/read_hepfiles.ipynb
   example_nb/writing_hepfiles_from_dicts.ipynb
   example_nb/write_hepfiles_from_scratch.ipynb
   example_nb/add_metadata.ipynb
   example_nb/awkward_arrays.ipynb
   example_nb/histogram_to_hepfile.ipynb

File Conversion Examples
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The following tutorials show examples of converting other file types to a hepfile.

.. toctree::
   example_nb/housing.ipynb
   example_nb/converting_json_to_hepfile.ipynb
   example_nb/working_with_fasta_files.ipynb
   example_nb/fits_tutorial.ipynb
